Here are the answers to your questions:

1. **What's the use of the `suppress_filters` argument in `WP_Query`?**
   - The `suppress_filters` argument in `WP_Query` is used to suppress the application of filters that modify the SQL query generated by `WP_Query`. When set to `true`, it prevents filters from altering the query, providing a way to retrieve unfiltered results.

2. **What is `meta_query`? What parameter will you pass in `WP_Query` to use `meta_query`?**
    - `meta_query` is a parameter of `WP_Query` that allows you to query posts based on custom field (post meta) values. You can use `meta_query` by passing an array of meta query parameters to the `meta_query` parameter of `WP_Query`.
        - `meta_key` (string) – Custom field key.
        - `meta_value` (string) – Custom field value.
        - `meta_value_num` (number) – Custom field value.
        - `meta_compare` (string) – Operator to test the ‘meta_value‘. Possible values are ‘=’, ‘!=’, ‘>’, ‘>=’, ‘<‘, ‘<=’, ‘LIKE’, ‘NOT LIKE’, ‘IN’, ‘NOT IN’, ‘BETWEEN’, ‘NOT BETWEEN’, ‘NOT EXISTS’, ‘REGEXP’, ‘NOT REGEXP’ or ‘RLIKE’. Default value is ‘=’.
        - `meta_query` (array) – Custom field parameters (available since version 3.1).
        - `relation` (string) – The logical relationship between each inner meta_query array when there is more than one. Possible values are ‘AND’, ‘OR’. Do not use with a single inner meta_query array.


3. **Difference between `wp_query` and `wp_the_query` global. Explore why there are two different globals even having the same property.**
   - `wp_query` and `wp_the_query` both represent instances of `WP_Query` but are used in different contexts. 
   - `wp_query` is the main query object used to retrieve posts for the current page request.
   - `wp_the_query` is used to access the main query object within the loop or when using custom queries.
   - They serve different purposes, with `wp_query` being used for the main query and `wp_the_query` for secondary queries or within the loop. 

4. **Write a `WP_Query` that will list all movies sorted by the runtime in descending order, by rating in ascending order, and displays all movies whether they have runtime set or not.**
   ```php
   $args = array(
       'post_type'      => 'rt-movie',
       'meta_key'       => 'runtime',
       'orderby'        => array(
           'meta_value_num' => 'DESC', // Sort by runtime in descending order
           'rating'         => 'ASC'   // Then sort by rating in ascending order
       ),
       'meta_query'     => array(
           'relation'      => 'OR',
           array(
               'key'       => 'runtime',
               'compare'   => 'EXISTS' // Include movies with runtime set
           ),
           array(
               'key'       => 'runtime',
               'compare'   => 'NOT EXISTS' // Include movies without runtime set
           )
       )
   );
   $query = new WP_Query( $args );
   ```

5. **Does `WP_Query` internally cache the queried posts?**
   - Yes, `WP_Query` does internally cache the queried posts by default.

6. **If yes then how does the caching key is constructed against which the results will be cached? Where is the cache stored?**
    - The caching key is constructed based on the query variables passed to WP_Query, creating a unique identifier for each distinct query. The cache is stored either in the default WordPress Object Cache or in a persistent cache if a plugin providing such functionality is installed.

7. **Why we should avoid the use of `post__not_in` argument in `WP_Query`?**
   - Using `post__not_in` can be inefficient, especially on sites with large databases, as it requires retrieving all post IDs before excluding them from the query.
   - It can also lead to inconsistent results, especially when paginating or combining queries.

8. **What is `paged` vs `page` parameter of `WP_Query`?**
   - `paged` is used to specify the current page number when paginating query results.
   - `page` is used to retrieve a specific page of results, where `page` parameter corresponds to the actual page number of the post.

9. **How is the `meta_query` interpreted into SQL query? Explain with an example meta query and what is its corresponding SQL query.**
   - `meta_query` parameters are translated into SQL queries that retrieve posts based on meta data.
   - For example, a `meta_query` array like this:
     ```php
     'meta_query' => array(
         'relation' => 'AND',
         array(
             'key' => 'color',
             'value' => 'blue',
             'compare' => '='
         ),
         array(
             'key' => 'size',
             'value' => 'large',
             'compare' => '='
         )
     )
     ```
     would be translated into an SQL query similar to:
     ```sql
     SELECT * FROM wp_posts
     LEFT JOIN wp_postmeta ON (wp_posts.ID = wp_postmeta.post_id)
     WHERE 1=1 AND wp_posts.post_type = 'post' AND (wp_posts.post_status = 'publish')
     AND ( 
       (wp_postmeta.meta_key = 'color' AND wp_postmeta.meta_value = 'blue') 
       AND 
       (wp_postmeta.meta_key = 'size' AND wp_postmeta.meta_value = 'large')
     )
     ```