# WPDB class
1. An instantiated wpdb class can talk to any number of tables, but only to one database at a time.
    
    **Note**

        Some of the methods in this class take an SQL statement as input. All untrusted values in an SQL statement must be escaped to prevent SQL injection attacks. Some methods will escape SQL for you; others will not. Check the documentation to be sure before you use any method in this class. For more on SQL escaping in WordPress, see the section entitled Protect Queries Against SQL Injection Attacks below.

## Using `$wpdb` global object
1. WordPress provides a global object, `$wpdb`, which is an instantiation of the `wpdb` class. By default, `$wpdb` is instantiated to talk to the WordPress database.
    ```php
    <?php
    // 1st Method - Declaring $wpdb as global and using it to execute an SQL query statement that returns a PHP object
    global $wpdb;
    $results = $wpdb->get_results( "SELECT * FROM {$wpdb->prefix}options WHERE option_id = 1", OBJECT );
    ```
    - You can also use the superglobals `$GLOBALS['wpdb']` to access the object.

## Protecting queries agains SQL injection attack
1. Use the [`prepare()`](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wpdb/prepare/) method in the wpdb class.
    - ```php
        <?php
        $sql = $wpdb->prepare( 'query' , value_parameter[, value_parameter ... ] );
      ```
    - **Parameters**
        - `query`: Query string
        - `value_parameter`: The value to substitute into the placeholder.
    - **Placeholders**
        - `%s` (string)
        - `%d` (integer)
        - `%f` (float)
    - All `%` characters inside SQL string literals, including LIKE wildcards, must be **double-% escaped** as `%%`.
    - Leave `%d`, `%f`, and `%s` unquoted in the query string.

    **Usage**
    ```php
    <?php
    $metakey   = 'Funny Phrases';
    $metavalue = "WordPress' database interface is like Sunday Morning: Easy.";

    $wpdb->query(
        $wpdb->prepare(
            "INSERT INTO $wpdb->postmeta ( post_id, meta_key, meta_value ) VALUES ( %d, %s, %s )",
            10,
            $metakey,
            $metavalue
        )
    );
    ```

## Common Tasks

### SELECT a Variable
```php
wpdb::get_var(
    string|null $query, // SQL query. Defaults to null, use the result from the previous query.
    int $x, // Column of value to return (Column Offset). Indexed from 0. Default 0.
    int $y // Row of value to return (Row Offset). Indexed from 0. Default 0.
)
```

**Usage**
```php
<?php
$user_count = $wpdb->get_var( "SELECT COUNT(*) FROM $wpdb->users" );
echo "<p>User count is {$user_count}</p>";
?>
```

### SELECT a ROW
To retrieve an entire row from a query, use [`get_row()`](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wpdb/get_row/). The function can return the row as an object, an associative array, or as a numerically indexed array.

```php
// Executes a SQL query and returns the row from the SQL result.
wpdb::get_row( 
    string|null $query = null, // SQL query.
    string $output = OBJECT, // The required return type. 
    int $y // Row to return.
): array|object|null|void
```

- Let's specifically look at `output_type/$output` parameter
    - `OBJECT` – result will be output as an object.
    - `ARRAY_A` – result will be output as an associative array.
    - `ARRAY_N` – result will be output as a numerically indexed array.

**Example Usage**
```php
$mylink = $wpdb->get_row( "SELECT * FROM $wpdb->links WHERE link_id = 10" );
echo $mylink->link_id; // prints "10"
```

### SELECT a COLUMN
To SELECT a column, use [`get_col`](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wpdb/get_col/). This method outputs a one dimensional array. If more than one column is returned by the query, only the specified column will be returned, but the entire result is cached for later use. Returns an empty array if no result is found.

### SELECT Generic Results
Generic, multiple row results can be pulled from the database with [`get_results()`](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wpdb/get_results/). The method returns the entire query result as an array.

```php
get_results( 'query', output_type );
```

**output_type**
- One of four pre-defined constants. Defaults to OBJECT. See SELECT a Row and its examples for more information.
- `OBJECT` – result will be output as a numerically indexed array of row objects.
- `OBJECT_K` – result will be output as an associative array of row objects, using first column’s values as keys (duplicates will be discarded).
- `ARRAY_A` – result will be output as a numerically indexed array of associative arrays, using column names as keys.
- `ARRAY_N` – result will be output as a numerically indexed array of numerically indexed arrays.

**Example Usage**
```php
$fivesdrafts = $wpdb->get_results(
    "SELECT ID, post_title
    FROM $wpdb->posts
    WHERE post_status = 'draft'
    AND post_author = 5"
);

foreach ( $fivesdrafts as $fivesdraft ) {
    echo $fivesdraft->post_title;
}
```

### Insert a Row
The [`insert()`](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wpdb/insert/) method is used to insert a row into a table.

```php
insert( $table, $data, $format );
```

1. `$table`: (string) The name of the table to insert data into.
2. `$data`: (array) Data to insert (in column => value pairs). Both $data columns and $data values should be “raw” (neither should be SQL escaped).
3. `$format` (array|string) (optional): An array of formats to be mapped to each of the values in $data. If string, that format will be used for all of the values in $data. If omitted, all values in $data will be treated as strings unless otherwise specified in wpdb::$field_types.
Possible format values: %s as string; %d as integer (whole number); and %f as float. (See below for more information.)

**Example Usage**

```php
$wpdb->insert(
    'table',
    array(
        'column1' => 'value1',
        'column2' => 123,
    ),
    array(
        '%s',
        '%d',
    )
);
```

### REPLACE a Row
Similar to **INSERT a Row**

Use `$wpdb->insert_id` to get the number of affected rows.


## Show and Hide SQL Errors
You can turn error echoing on and off with the show_errors and hide_errors, respectively.

```php
<?php $wpdb->show_errors(); ?>
<?php $wpdb->hide_errors(); ?>
```

You can also print the error (if any) generated by the most recent query with print_error.

```php
Copy
<?php $wpdb->print_error(); ?>
```

Note: If you are running WordPress Multisite, you must define the DIEONDBERROR constant for database errors to display like so:

```php
Copy
<?php define( 'DIEONDBERROR', true ); ?>
```


## Properties
1. `$base_prefix` — The original prefix as defined in wp-config.php. For multi-site: Use if you want to get the prefix without the blog number appended.
2. `$col_info` — The column information for the most recent query results. See Getting Column Information.
3. `$insert_id` — ID generated for an AUTO_INCREMENT column by the most recent INSERT query.
4. `$last_error` — The most recent error text generated by MySQL.
5. `$last_query` — The most recent query to have been executed.
6. `$last_result` — The most recent query results.
7. `$num_queries` — The number of queries that have been executed.
8. `$num_rows` — The number of rows returned by the last query.
9. `$prefix` — The assigned WordPress table prefix for the site.
10. `$queries` — You may save all of the queries run on the database and their stop times by setting the SAVEQUERIES constant to TRUE (this constant defaults to FALSE). If SAVEQUERIES is TRUE, your queries will be stored in this variable as an array.
$show_errors — Whether or not Error echoing is turned on. Defaults to TRUE.

## Multi-Site Variables
If you are using Multi-Site, you also have access to the following:

1. $blogid — The id of the current site (blog).
$siteid — The id of the current network (formerly “site”). WordPress currently only supports one network per multi-site install, but that could change in future. See the following for more information: WordPress: difference between site_id and blog_id?
http://stackoverflow.com/a/4189358/1924128 – Another good answer to the same question.
Tables
The WordPress database tables are easily referenced in the wpdb class.

$comments — The Comments table.
$commentmeta — The table contains additional comment information.
$links — The table of Links.
$options — The Options table.
$posts — The table of Posts.
$postmeta — The Meta Content (a.k.a. Custom Fields) table.
$term_taxonomy — The term_taxonomy table describes the various taxonomies (classes of terms). Categories, Link Categories, and Tags are taxonomies.
$term_relationships — The term relationships table contains link between the term and the object that uses that term, meaning this file point to each Category used for each Post.
$termmeta — The termmeta table contains the term meta values.
$terms — The terms table contains the ‘description’ of Categories, Link Categories, Tags.
$users — The table of Users.
$usermeta — The usermeta table contains additional user information, such as nicknames, descriptions and permissions.
Multisite Tables
These tables are used only in multisite installations.

$blogs — The Blogs table contains a list of the separate blogs (sites) that have been set up within the network(s).
$blog_versions — The Blog Versions table.
$blogmeta — The Blogmeta table is used to store data associated with a particulate blog in multisite context. See more info in this blog post.
$registration_log — The Registration Log table.
$signups — The Signups table.
$site — The Site table contains a list of the networks (previously known as “sites” in WPMU) that are set up in the installation (usually there is only one site listed in this table).
$sitecategories — The Site Categories table.
$sitemeta — The Network Options (Site Meta) table contains any options that are applicable to the entire multisite installation.
