# Object Caching
1. The WordPress Object Cache is used to save on trips to the database. The Object Cache stores all of the cache data to memory and makes the cache contents available by using a key, which is used to name and later retrieve the cache contents.
2. To avoid multiple database queries , WordPress stores its data in object cache as a key-value pairs in `$wp_object_cache` variable, in `cache.php`.
3. The [`WP_Object_Cache`](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_object_cache/) is one of the core cache implementation class.
4. Rather than storing the data into **database**, we store that data ***in memory***. Saves a tonn of databse trips.
5. This is implemented in [`wp-includes/cache.php`](https://core.trac.wordpress.org/browser/tags/5.5.1/src/wp-includes/cache.php#L0)
6. Do not use any `WP_Object_Cache` function directly into your plugin, instead use `wp_cache_*` functions.
7. It's **not persistant**, but if you want persistant caching across page loads use [persistant caching](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_object_cache/#persistent-caching) plugin.


## Role of the WordPress Object Cache
1. By default, the object cache is non-persistent. This means that data stored in the cache resides in memory only and only for the duration of the request. 

## `wp_cache_*` functions
```php
wp_cache_get(
    int|string $key, // Key under which cache is stored
    string $group, // Cache content group
    bool $force, // Force update the local cache 
    bool $found
)
```

Let's see some more functions
1. `wp_cache_set()` saves data to the cache.
2. `wp_cache_get()`
3. `wp_cache_delete()`
4. `wp_cache_flush()` 
5. `wp_cache_add()`, it only saves data if the key is already not present there.
6. `wp_cache_replace()` replaces the cache data.

## Optimization
WordPress caching is the fastest way to improve performance. 

### Use Caching Plugins
Use plugins like [W3 Total Cache](https://wordpress.org/plugins/w3-total-cache/), [W3 Super Cache](https://wordpress.org/plugins/wp-super-cache/), [Cache Enabler](https://wordpress.org/plugins/cache-enabler/)

### Browser Caching
1. Browser caching can help to reduce server load by reducing the number of requests per page. 
2. Setting the correct file headers on files that don’t change (static files like images, CSS, JavaScript etc) browsers will then cache these files on your visitor’s computer. 
3. The result is your web server can answer many more 304 responses, confirming that a file is unchanged, instead of 200 responses, which require the file to be sent.

### Object Caching
The storage engine for an object cache can be a number of technologies. Popular object caching engines include Redis, Memcached, APC, and the file system. 

### Server Caching
Web server caching is more complex but is used in very high traffic sites. A wide range of options are available, beyond the scope of this article. The simplest solutions start with the server caching locally while more complex and involved systems may use multiple caching servers (also known as reverse proxy servers) “in front” of web servers where the WordPress application is actually running.

### Performance Factor
1. Hosting
    - Shared
    - Managed
    - Virtual Private Servers (VPS) & Dedicated Servers
    - Number of Server
    - Hardware Performance
    - Geographical Distance
    - Server load
    - Software Performance
2. WordPress Configurations

You can use performance measurement tools, like let's say lighthouse, load testing tools.

### How to improve performance ?
1. Minimize Plugins
2. Optimizing contents
    - Images, Number Of Files etc.
3. Upgrade Hardware
4. Optimize Software
5. Caching
6. Use of Content Delivery Networks (CDN)

