# Requirement Analysis
To make migration fast and accurate, all requirements should be noted beforehand.

## Mapping Of Data
1. Why data mapping is needed ? It's needed because we want to identify which part migrates to which field in post, or which meta taxonomy, or which CPT is needed.
2. This can also include widgets or blocks conversion.
3. Identifying the post's *datetime* is crucial as it determines in what sequence the posts are displayed.
4. At this point identify the basic structure of the theme files as well based on the [template](https://developer.wordpress.org/themes/basics/template-hierarchy/) hierarchy
5. Attachment migration and mapping photos and videos in case they are stored in CDN buckets or they are in large quantities, etc. We can refer to this [WordPress Import Fixers](https://github.com/a8cteam51/wordpress-importer-fixers) script to import the attachments that are available in the post content after the posts are migrated, so this will offload the attachments to be migrated separately.
## Scripting Requirements
1. We are ready to write the scripts that will handle the migration. All migrations will vary heavily at this step.
2. Sometimes we can get WXR files and just use the WordPress importer (typically using WP CLI) to handle everything we need.
3. Other times we’ll use the WordPress Importer plugin and then write a script to modify data once it’s in WordPress and other times we’ll write WP-CLI scripts that handle the entire migration process for us.
4. All of these decisions should be part of the migration plan we put together, so at this point, we know exactly what we are going to do, and we can start work accordingly. 
5. We use WP CLI to power these scripts, which gives us great flexibility on what we can do, and what output we can show, and typically you’ll have a lot fewer issues with performance, like memory limits and timeouts.