# Delta Migrations
1. Delta migration is the process of the second round of migration done after first-level migration. 
2. When we are doing migration of the site which is currently live, the current editors will be daily updating or adding new content. To update or add only changed things, delta migration is done.
3. Delta Migration is the process of migrating incremental data in the new site, so we have migrated data until some date then the site goes into the first phase of the review, meanwhile some other blog posts are published in the current site.
4. It's done when the editorial freezing time is too less.


# Writing WP CLI Scripts
We can migrate content first and then migrate images, videos, PDFs, etc separately so our main process will be offloaded. We can also use some tools that allow us the parallel processing of multiple assets at the same time.
- The rule of thumb in the assets is to always compare the asset URL with migrated data, if the asset is available go ahead and use that it will not just run the script faster but also help to reduce the use of the server resources.
- For the VIP clients, we need to use the VIP CLI to run the WP-CLI commands on the VIP platform, for more details check – [https://docs.wpvip.com/technical-references/vip-cli/](https://docs.wpvip.com/technical-references/vip-cli/)

# Migration Results and Observe Script Taken Time
1. Our scripts must give multiple options like if the user fires a command then what kind of data will be affected, how much data is imported, how much data is left, and logging all the critical things in the CLI itself.
2. We also need to keep in mind the total time it takes to run these scripts. If the scripts are taking too much time then it is not feasible, and we need to break them down in parts and plan the migration accordingly.

# Potential Risks

