# React

## Introduction To JSX #JSX 
```jsx
const element = <h1>Hello World</h1>;
```

The above example is of a JSX, it's an extension to the regular javascript, using this with react to describe how the UI looks.

#### Why JSX ?
1. React embraces the fact that rendering logic is inherently coupled with other UI logic.
2. React [separates _concerns_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Separation_of_concerns) with loosely coupled units called “components” that contain both.

#### Embedding Expression in JSX
```jsx
const name = "Abhinav";
const element = <h1>My name is {name}</h1>;
```

You can pretty much put any valid `JS` expression inside the curly braces `{}` and it will be rendered.

#### JSX is an expression too
```jsx
function greetings( $time ) {
	if ( $time === "morning" ) {
		return <h1>Good Morning</h1>;
	} else {
		return <h1>Good Night</h1>;
	}
}
```

After compilation, JSX expressions become regular JavaScript function calls and evaluate to JavaScript objects.

#### Specifying attributes inside JSX
1. You may specify the attributes using **double quotes**
```jsx
const element = <a href="https://www.react.dev">Link</a>;
```
2. Or if you want the attributes to be dynamic use
```jsx
const url = "https://www.react.dev";
const element = <a href={url}>Link</a>;
```
3. You should either use quotes (for string values) or curly braces (for expressions), but not both in the same attribute.

#### Specifying Children with JSX
```jsx
const element = (
	<div>
		<h1>Hello!</h1>
		<p>Good Morning user!</p>
	</div>
)
```

#### JSX Prevents Injection Attacks
By default, React DOM [escapes](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7381974/which-characters-need-to-be-escaped-on-html) any values embedded in JSX before rendering them. Thus it ensures that you can never inject anything that’s not explicitly written in your application. Everything is converted to a string before being rendered. This helps prevent [XSS (cross-site-scripting)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site_scripting) attacks.

#### JSX Represents Objects
Babel compiles JSX down to `React.createElement()` calls.

see [[1.2-asset-building-using-webpack-and-babel#Babel]]

```jsx
const element = (
	<h1 className="greeting">
		Hello World!
	</h1>
);
```

```js
const element = React.createElement(
	'h1',
	{
		'className' : 'greeting'
	},
	'Hello World!'
);
```


## Components & Props
Components let you split the UI into independent, reusable pieces, and think about each piece in isolation. This page provides an introduction to the idea of components.

### Function & Class Components
1. The simplest way is to write `JS`
2. This function is a valid React component because it accepts a single “props” (which stands for properties) object argument with data and returns a React element.
```jsx
function welcom( props ) {
	return <h1>Hello, World!</h1>;
}
```

3. The above code is equivalent to something like
```jsx
class Welcom extends React.Component {
	render() {
		return <h1>Hello, World!</h1>;
	}
}
```
4. The above two components are equivalent from React’s point of view.

### Rendering Components
1. Elements can be represented by **variables** also.
2. However, elements can also represent user-defined components
```jsx
const element = <welcom name="sara"/>;
```
3. When React sees an element representing a user-defined component, it passes JSX attributes and children to this component as a single object. We call this object “props”.

```jsx
function welcome( props ) {
	return <h1>Hello, {props.name}!</h1>;
}

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot( document.getElementById( 'root' ) );
const element = <welcome name="sara" />;
root.render( element );
```

### Composing Components
Components can refer to other components in their output. This lets us use the same component abstraction for any level of detail. A button, a form, a dialog, a screen: in React apps, all those are commonly expressed as components.

### Extracting Components 
Don’t be afraid to split components into smaller components.

### Props are Read Only
Whether you declare a component [as a function or a class](https://legacy.reactjs.org/docs/components-and-props.html#function-and-class-components), it must never modify its own props.
**All React components must act like pure functions with respect to their props.**

#react #wordpress #theme 

## State And Lifecycle
1. We will learn how to make the `Clock` component truly reusable and encapsulated. It will set up its own timer and update itself every second.
2. We will try using the `React.Component` class to do so.

```jsx
class Clock extends React.Component {
	render() {
		return (
			<div>
				<p>It's {this.state.date.toLocaleTimeString()}</p>
			</div>
		);
	}
}
```

3. But we need some way to add the time, and set the class variables so, we add this
```jsx
class Clock extends React.Component {
	constructor( props ) {
		super( props );
		this.state = { date: new Date() };
	}

	render() {
		return (
			<div>
				<p>It's {this.state.date.toLocaleTimeString()}</p>
			</div>
		);
	}
}

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot( document.getElementById( 'root' ) );
root.render( <Clock /> );
```

### Adding Lifecycle Methods
1. The `componentDidMount()` method runs after the component output has been rendered to the DOM. This is a good place to set up a timer:
```jsx
componentDidMount() {
	this.timerID = setInterval(
		() => this.tick(),
		1000
	);
}
```

2. We also want to [clear that timer](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WindowTimers/clearInterval) whenever the DOM produced by the `Clock` is removed. This is called “unmounting” in React.
```jsx
componentWillUnmount() {
	clearInterval( this.timeID );
}
```


**And So Finally**

```jsx
class Clock extends React.Component {
	constructor( props ) {
		super( props );
		this.state = { date: new Date() };
	}
	
	componentDidMount() {
		this.timerID = setInterval(
			() => this.tick(),
			1000
		);
	}

	componentWillUnmount() {
		clearInterval( this.timeID );
	}

	render() {
		return (
			<div>
				<p>It's {this.state.date.toLocaleTimeString()}</p>
			</div>
		);
	}
}

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot( document.getElementById( 'root' ) );
root.render( <Clock /> );
```


Let’s quickly recap what’s going on and the order in which the methods are called:

1. When `<Clock />` is passed to `root.render()`, React calls the constructor of the `Clock` component. Since `Clock` needs to display the current time, it initializes `this.state` with an object including the current time. We will later update this state.
2. React then calls the `Clock` component’s `render()` method. This is how React learns what should be displayed on the screen. React then updates the DOM to match the `Clock`’s render output.
3. When the `Clock` output is inserted in the DOM, React calls the `componentDidMount()` lifecycle method. Inside it, the `Clock` component asks the browser to set up a timer to call the component’s `tick()` method once a second.
4. Every second the browser calls the `tick()` method. Inside it, the `Clock` component schedules a UI update by calling `setState()` with an object containing the current time. Thanks to the `setState()` call, React knows the state has changed, and calls the `render()` method again to learn what should be on the screen. This time, `this.state.date` in the `render()` method will be different, and so the render output will include the updated time. React updates the DOM accordingly.
5. If the `Clock` component is ever removed from the DOM, React calls the `componentWillUnmount()` lifecycle method so the timer is stopped.

### Using state correctly
1. Do not modify state directly
```jsx
// Wrong
this.state.comment = "Hello";
this.setState( { comment: "Hello" } );
```

2. React may batch multiple `setState()` calls into a single update for performance.
3. Because `this.props` and `this.state` may be updated asynchronously, you should not rely on their values for calculating the next state.
4. To fix it, use a second form of `setState()` that accepts a function rather than an object.
```jsx
this.setState( (state, props) => {
	count: state.count + props.increment
} );
```
5. We used an [arrow function](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/Arrow_functions) above, but it also works with regular functions.

### The Data Flows Down
1. Neither parent nor child components can know if a certain component is stateful or stateless, and they shouldn’t care whether it is defined as a function or a class.
2. This is why state is often called local or encapsulated. It is not accessible to any component other than the one that owns and sets it.


## Handling Events
1. React events are named using camelCase, rather than lowercase.
2. With JSX you pass a function as the event handler, rather than a string.

```jsx
<button onClick={activateLasers}>
	Activate Lasers
</button>
```