# Block API Versions
## [Version 3 (>= WordPress 6.3)](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/block-api/block-api-versions/#version-3-wordpress-6-3)

- The post editor will be **iframed** if all registered blocks have a Block API version 3 or higher and the editor has no classic meta boxes below the blocks. Adding version 3 support means that the block should work inside an iframe, though the block may still be rendered outside the iframe if not all blocks support version 3.

## [Version 2 (>= WordPress 5.6)](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/block-api/block-api-versions/#version-2-wordpress-5-6)

- To render the block element wrapper for the block’s `edit` implementation, the block author must use the `useBlockProps()` hook.
- The generated class names and styles are no longer added automatically to the saved markup for static blocks when `save` is processed. To include them, the block author must explicitly use `useBlockProps.save()` and add to their block wrapper.

# Registration `registerBlockType`
Every block starts by registering a new block type definition. To register, you use the `registerBlockType` function from the [`wp-blocks` package](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guide/packages/packages-blocks/#registerBlockType).
## Block Name
The name for a block is a unique string that identifies a block. Names have to be structured as `namespace/block-name`, where namespace is the name of your plugin or theme.

## Block Configuration
A block requires a few properties to be specified before it can be registered successfully.

### title `string`
This is the display title for your block, which can be translated with our translation functions.

```js
// Our data object
title: __( 'Book' );
```
### description (optional) `string`
This is a short description for your block, which can be translated with our translation functions.

```js
description: __( 'Block showing a Book card.' );
```

### category  `string`
Blocks are grouped into categories to help users browse and discover them.
The core provided categories are:
*text, media, design, widgets, theme, embed*

```js
// Assigning to the 'widgets' category
category: 'widgets',
```

### icon (optional) `string|object`

So basically a `string` if it's a *dashicon* else just add the icon `object`

```js
// Specifying a dashicon for the block
icon: 'book-alt',

// Specifying a custom svg for the block
icon: <svg viewBox="0 0 24 24" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><path fill="none" d="M0 0h24v24H0V0z" /><path d="M19 13H5v-2h14v2z" /></svg>,
```

# Registration `registerBlockCollection`
Blocks can be added to collections, grouping together all blocks from the same origin
`registerBlockCollection` takes two parameters, `namespace` and an object of settings including `title` and `icon`.

```js
// Registering a block collection
registerBlockCollection( 'my-plugin', { title: 'My Plugin' } );
```

# Use styles & stylesheets
## `Method 1` : Inline Style
The `useBlockProps` React hook is used to set and apply properties on the block’s wrapper element. The following example shows how:

```jsx
const greenBackground = {
    backgroundColor: '#090',
    color: '#fff',
    padding: '20px',
};

const blockProps = useBlockProps( { style: greenBackground } );

return (
    <p { ...blockProps }>Hello World (from the editor, in green).</p>
);
```

## `Method 2`: Block Classname
The `useBlockProps` hooks includes the classname for the block automatically, it generates a name for each block using the block’s name prefixed with `wp-block-`, replacing the `/`namespace separator with a single `-`.

For example the block name: `gutenberg-examples/example-02-stylesheets` would get the classname: `wp-block-gutenberg-examples-example-02-stylesheets`.


### Enqueue Stylesheets
1. Like scripts, you can enqueue your block’s styles using the `block.json` file.
2. Following properties load `CSS`
	1. `editorStyle` property to a CSS file you want to load in the editor view
	2. `viewStyle` property for a CSS file you want to load only on the frontend when the block is used.
3. It is worth noting that, if the editor content is iframed, both the `style` and `editorStyle` will load in the iframe.
4. `editorStyle` will also load outside the iframe, so it can be used for editor content as well as UI.
5.  If you have multiple files to include, you can use standard `wp_enqueue_style` functions
6. You will want to use the following hooks for the block editor:
	- `enqueue_block_editor_assets` – to load only in editor view
	- `enqueue_block_assets` – loads both on frontend and editor view

