# What is FSE?

Full Site Editing (or “FSE”) is a collection of inter-related features that unlocks the ability to edit your entire site using blocks. This allows you to take advantage of the familiar and flexible experience of the [Block Editor](https://wordpress.com/support/using-the-block-editor/) in more places.

## Basic Components of FSE
- **Site Editor**: the cohesive experience that allows you to directly edit and navigate between various templates, template parts, styling options, and more.
- **Template Editing**: a scaled down direct editing experience allowing you to edit/change/create the template a post/page uses.
- **Block Theme**: work to allow for a theme that’s built using templates composed using blocks that works with full site editing. More below.
- **Styling**: the feature that enables styling modifications across three levels (local blocks, theme defaults, and global modifications).
- **Theme Blocks**: new blocks that accomplish everything possible in traditional templates using template tags (ex: Query Loop, Navigation, Site Logo and etc..).
- **Browsing**: the feature that unlocks the ability to navigate between various entities in the site editing experience including templates, pages, etc.

## Advantages & Disadvantage of FSE
### Pros of FSE
1. Lowers the barrier to entry and makes WordPress easier to use for everyone
2. Users will have more control and flexibility over designing and creating their websites without having to worry about code.
### Cons of FSE
It initiates the need for theme and plugin developers to adopt alternative approaches on how they create templates and apply base styles, which can make some aspects of development more complex.

