# Shortcodes
1. Shortcodes are macros that can be used to perform dynamic interactions with the content. i.e creating a gallery from images attached to the post or rendering a video.
2. Shortcodes are a valuable way of keeping content clean and semantic while allowing end users some ability to programmatically alter the presentation of their content.

## Built-in Shortcodes

By default, WordPress includes the following shortcodes:

- `[caption]` – allows you to wrap captions around content
- `[gallery]` – allows you to show image galleries
- `[audio]` – allows you to embed and play audio files
- `[video]` – allows you to embed and play video files
- `[playlist]` – allows you to display collection of audio or video files
- `[embed]` – allows you to wrap embedded items

## Shortcode Best Practices
1. Always return
2. Prefix your shortcode names to avoid collisions with other plugins.
3. Sanitize input & escape output.
4. Provide user with clear documentation on all shortcode attributes.

## Basics Of Shortcode
### Adding a shortcode

```php
add_shortcode(
    string $tag,
    callable $func
);

// Example
add_shortcode('wporg', 'wporg_shortcode');
function wporg_shortcode( $atts = [], $content = null) {
    // do something to $content
    // always return
    return $content;
}

```

### Remove Shortcode

```php
remove_shortcode(
    string $tag
);
```


### Check If Shortcode exists or not
To check whether a shortcode has been registered use `shortcode_exists()`.

## Enclosing Shortcodes

```
[wporg]content to manipulate[/wporg]
```


### Shortcode ception

1. The shortcode parser performs a **single pass** on the content of the post.
2. This means that if the `$content` parameter of a shortcode handler contains another shortcode, it won’t be parsed. In this example, `[shortcode]` will not be processed:

```php
[wporg]another [shortcode] is included[/wporg]
```

3. Using shortcodes inside other shortcodes is possible by calling `do_shortcode()` on the **final return value** of the handler function.

## Shortcodes With Parameters

```
[wporg title="WordPress.org"]
Having fun with WordPress.org shortcodes.
[/wporg]
```

1. With the `$atts`, we will be receiving the attributes.


